# The Command Line Interface
Here is an example prompt on a server
``` bash
ubuntu@chopin:~$
```
The format of the prompt follows
```
[user]@[hostname]:[current_directory]$
```
The user repersents the current logged in user.
The hostname is the computer's name.
The current directory is the path to the dir you are currently in.
  The ~ dir is the home dir.
Standard Input (STDIN) is what allows you to input text.

## The anatomy of a Command
Commands always are in the following format:
`[Command] [arguments]`
Arguments are strings that are passed to the program/command that you are running.

### Echo
Echo lets you send text to the CLI's output
``` bash
echo 'Hello World'
```

### pwd
This command lets you know where you are in the file system. Stands for Print working directory
``` bash
pwd
/home/ubuntu
```

### tar
This command is for archival. You can archive, compress, or extract files with it.
``` bash
tar -c -z -f ./archive.tgz ./files-to-archive/
```

### man
Man command is for the manual for commands. You type man then the name of the command that you want the manual for. Type q to exit the man
``` bash
man tar
```

### cd
Change directories

### ls
list the files and directories in the current dir

### touch
create a file

### mkdir
create a dir

### rm
Remove a file or dir

### cp
Copy a file or dir

### mv
Move or rename a file or dir

### cat
Display the contents of a file

### more
Display contents of a file, but lets users scroll down

### less
Display contents of a file in a more interactive way

### head
Display the first part of a file

### tail
Display the last part of a file

## Exercises
1.The echo command has only one optional flag: -n, which means "Do not print the trailing newline character." Experiment with echo. Run the following commands, guessing before running each what the output will be:

``` bash
echo "hello world"
echo hello world
echo -n hello world
echo hello world -n
echo "hello world" -n
echo "-n hello world"
```
The -n flag needs to come before the other arguments. 
